Back in 2009, while I was doing my undergraduate studies, a friend suggested me to watch a movie named Girl, Interrupted. I had just started watching Hollywood movies with a penchant for action and thrillers. This movie was a different genre altogether. I still watched the movie and liked it to a good extent. I drew one conclusion from the movie. It's very important to express your feelings.

The movie is based on the experiences of Susanna Kaysen(played by Winona ryder <3), an American author in a psychiatric hospital. I vaguely remember the plot now, but here is the essence of it. The Girl is introverted and often keeps to herself. There is lot cooking inside her head but it's never let out. This leads to behavioural changes which kind of rattles her family members and as a result she is sent to a psychiatric hospital. She is diagnosed with Borderline personality disorder. While there are patients with vaying degree of insanity there, she makes few friends among them. The death of one of her friend Lysa makes an impact on her and she starts writing to express her feeling and thus venting her anger and anguish. The essence of the film being, the more you supress your feelings, the more paranoid you become.

In every stage of our lives, we find someone to talk to. While we are kids, we share everything with our mother or father. As we grow old, we confide in our friends and siblings. This role is then taken up by ones significant other. If any of these links are missing, then we start keeping to ourselves. Introverts especially find it difficult to begin a relationship. It's not that, they do not have the knowledge that an extrovet has. It's just that, the topics that extroverts speak, often seem mundane and pointless to the introverts. Smalltalk never interests an introvert.

But here comes the caveat. In todays world love is often first expressed in words, than in deeds. An introvert is set to lose this game if the girl/boy he/she's hitting on is not so close. Whatever amount of courage you gather from various sources, goes kaput when the moment arrives. I once read a suggestion on Quora from a fellow Quoran, which read "Fuck the outcome !!". But Introvert being an introvert often dwells in low self esteem until someone comes to break you free from that confinement.

Are you waiting for that someone ?
