I was visiting Majali to attend my Aunt's house warming ceremony. I was looking forward to meeting all the friends and relatives I used to spend time with back in my school days whenever I visited Vasco for summer holidays. I was counting on a visit to Karwar or Majali beach but not to a secluded nice little beach with very clean water. 
When Vipin bhai(cousin) asked Maruti(another cousin) about some nice places near to Majali which we can visit for an hour or two, I expected just another list of beaches. But on hearing the name of Tilmati(literally Sesame Soil), I got curious. We all decided to visit it the next day and continued with tasks at hand(We didn't have any. We were just lazing around)
Next day, after lunch I, Maruti and Parth saw that the elders(Prasad Bavoji and Vipin bhai) were a bit reluctant to visit Tilmati. They just wanted to lie down and rest. Sensing trouble Maruji set Parth on a task to get everyone ready for the visit. He was quite successful in waking up the people who were dozing off and we were good to go by 4.00. But Vipin and others had planned a bigger and more important task after returning from the beach. They had grown sick and tire of eating vegetarian food for the past couple of days and wanted to treat their toungues. And to buy the fresh fish they wanted to return by 6- 6.30. Keeping this in mind we jumped into the cars.
Maruti turned out to be a big mouth who knew little about the place. Hence we had to rely on Google. We took a left turn some 3 kms after the Ramnath cross, on the way to Goa on NH17 to reach a point from where on, no vehicles can go. As always Google messed up when it came to the small streets. After walking for about 200 to 250 metres through a grimy place we spotted a well cemented road. Maruti got a mouthful for not knowing this street especially from Lata Maushi.
Walking for about 50 metres from that cemented road takes you to a messy beach, from where you need to trek for some time through the rocky hillock. The beach is in the middle of nowhere and this black soil streches for only 150-200 metres, hence it's difficult to spot from the hill. Maruti had a friend waiting for him at the Tilmati beach who kept guiding us to
