I have had my fare share of beaches while growing up and there fore I don't get too excited whenever beach visit is in the offing. But Tilmati was different. Tilmati in Konkani (or Marathi for that matter) means Sesame soil and that got me curious. A beach with black sand.

The beach is situated in Goa close to Karnataka border. To get here, one has to take a left on the NH 66, some 3 kms away from the Ramanath cross of Majali towards Goa. After driving for another kilometer you would reach a point from where no 4 wheelers can go.(This is the route Google suggested, there is another route through Gabitwada, which would save you from a 200mt walk).

After this you would reach a messy beach from where you need to trek on a small hillock to get to the Tilmati beach. This must be around 700- 800mts of trek. While you are trekking you cross into Goa. We also saw a spot where the water level rises very high once the tides hit and goes down drastically once the tides die down. This beach is in the middle of nowhere and hence somewhat far from humanity. That makes the walk calm and serene despite the sea roaring just some metres away.

Because of the small hills en route one can't see the beach from far. Only after crossing the last trough a black strech of about 150-200 metres becomes visible. The beach is made of a special kind of stone(which look kind of painted) which is the reason for the black sand. Sand particles being larger in size do not mix up with water much which makes the water very clean and tidy. We didn't trouble ourselves much with an adventure because the water was found to be running deep after taking 10-12 steps.

All in all this is very good place who want to spend some time with their near and dear ones in a quiet beach away from all the outside world mess. A world of caution is in order, the trek does get a little steep at one or two places and is not advised for the elderly. If you are seeking a miniature trek and happen to be near Karwar, then please do pay a visit to this place.
